Andrew Delgado
csa476y1
lab71.net.cecs.csulb.edu


This homework is about setting up Domain Name Service.
Set up the files for the machine you administer to be a DNS name server (Remember, cheetah holds
configuration files that may be used as examples). You will claim to be a primary server for the domain
netXX.cecs.csulb.edu where XX is the number of your machine. (For example those of you on lab28 will
set up as a primary for the domain net28.cecs.csulb.edu.) You will also claim to be a primary server
(reverse lookup) for the 192.168.1.0 subnet.

To make this project simpler, you domain has only two machines. Your DNS files should have
name/number and reverse mappings for the machine test01.netXX.cecs.csulb.edu with a number of
192.168.1.1 and for the for the machine test02.netXX.cecs.csulb.edu with a number of 192.168.1.2
You will need to build named.conf, named.local and the forward and reverse files. You should use a copy
of an existing root.cache. You should place named.conf in /etc and all other files in /etc/named. When
you have the files set up, you should start /usr/sbin/named (the program), by hand. Note: If you run into
issues, /var/log/syslog may contain valuable information to help troubleshoot (particularly on syntax
errors).

Modify your machine so that named will start automatically when the machine is booted.
To prevent everything from crashing if you goof up your configuration, I recommend you do not change
your resolv.conf. This means that “normal” name look-ups will still go to cheetah. The only time you
will use your server is if you specify it or to specifically switch to your it.
Testing: Use an nslookup or dig or host specifically specifying your machine as the server and look up
test01.netXX.cecs.csulb.edu and make sure it finds the IP number. Repeat this test looking up the IP
number (192.168.1.1) and make sure it finds the name. Do this for the other name and address as well.

Report: Which files did you install and what was in them. Suggestion: Put each of the files into your
submission. As the first or second line in the file put a comment that contains the name of the file.


Report: Give exactly one of your tests. This will indicate which command you used in testing and the
exact format of that command.